Team 5- ROBO SUMOS

Team Members:-

Umesh Nair
Sreeram Krishnan
Vinod Salunke

K.C. College Of Engineering,Thane(E)


Project Description:-

Robo-sumo is a sport in which two autonomous robots attempt to push each other out of a circular ring.This project makes use of Image Processing using MATLAB and Wireless Data Transmission using XBEE.
An overhead camera takes an image of the entire arena along with the robots on it.Then, using Image processing in MATLAB, we determine the position of both the robots and the angles required for each of them to face each other.These angles are sent through XBEE to the corresponding robots after which they rotate by that angle and then move forward to push the opponent.
This project also makes use of AVR Studio to write the C code that is eventually burnt onto the robots using AVR BootLoader.


Technologies Used:-

1) Embedded C
2) MATLAB
3) XBEE



Installation Instructions:-


Installing Matlab on Windows

Before beginning, make sure you have:

• A working internet connection

• At least 4.5 GB free space on your hard drive

To install Matlab:

1. Point your web browser to http://software.brown.edu.

2. Under All Distributed Software, click on Windows.

3. From the list of software, ?nd Matlab R2010b and click on it.

4. Read the license agreement and click “I have read the support and
licensing statements and I’m ready to download Matlab.”

5. Login with your Brown authID (for example: jdoe1) and password.

6. Follow the instructions on the CIS download page to install either
the 32-bit or 64-bit version of Matlab, using the default settings. If
you don’t know for certain that you’re running on a 64-bit machine,
download the 32-bit version.



You can now run MATLAB from your own computer while you’re on the
Brown network. 

(Note that to use MATLAB in class, you will need to either plug your laptop into an
ethernet port (there is one for every seat), connect to the Brown Secure wireless network,
or use a VPN connection (see below)).



Connecting to the Brown-Secure Wireless Network
on Windows

1. Go To CIS and download ”SecureW2”

2. Install ”SecureW2” (May Require Restart)

3. Open ”Control Panel”

4. Open ”Network Connections”

5. Right-Click on your ”Wireless Network Connection” and select ”Prop-
erties”

6. Select the ”Wireless Networks” Tab

7. ”Brown-Secure” Should be on the ”Preferred Networks” List

8. Select ”Brown-Secure” and Press ”Properties”

9. Select the ”Authentication” Tab

10. Make Sure ”EAP type:” is set to ”SecureW2”, if not select it from the
list.

11. Select ”OK”

12. Select ”View Wireless Networks”

13. Double Click on ”Brown-Secure” (Press Refresh if its not on the list)

14. Within a few moments, a balloon will pop up on the start menu, Click
on it.

15. In the box that pops up, enter your standard brown username and
password.

16. Check the ”Save Credentials” box for automatic connection later.

17. Presto! You are now Connected to the Brown-Secure Network.

Installing Matlab at Home



Setting up a VPN connection

1. Go to CIS and download ”Cisco VPN Client”

2. After connecting to the Brown wireless network, open the VPN client

3. Select the connection entry ”Brown” and press ”Connect”

4. Type in your authID and password

5. There are additional support resources at the bottom of the download
page that will help you get VPN started if you have trouble.





References:-

[1] Tennis Ball Collector Robot By E-Yantra Team: http://www.e-yantra.org/ci/projects/code/73

[2] Image Processing using MATLAB: http://www.mathworks.in/matlabcentral/

[3] Robert M. Haralick, “Computer and Robot Vision”

[4] Nichu sebe Michel S Lew.,Thomas S Haung: “Computer vision in human-computer interaction”

[5] Hardware and Software manuals of Spark V

